## 9. Set clear, long-term goals
Investing in open data can result in many benefits, including increased public participation in decision-making, decreasing duplication of investment in data and information products, encouraging peer-review of science, and facilitating non-traditional partnerships. Indeed, open data projects should be designed to encourage as many of these things. However, it is important that specific and measurable goals be defined at the start of the project. These may change over the course of the project as the result of new learnings or newly articulated priorities, but having clearly defined and agreed upon targets prior to initiating activities will help manage expectations and support clear communication between project partners and stakeholders.
Further, it is important to recognize that open data projects are fundamentally about affecting behavior and relationships. Meaningful change related institutional and individual interaction with risk information is a significant undertaking. Too often, interventions in this space take the form of short, discrete activities without a broader vision or operational theory of change. Sustained engagement is required for open data projects to achieve success.
///Example: OpenDRI Analysis Tool///	
The OpenDRI analysis tool provides a common reference methodology and guidelines for implementation of OpenDRI projects. After the initial engagement with government's DRM experts through which project goals and user needs are defined, a typical next step is an in-depth assessment of technological capacity and data availability. This guide provides templates for conducting IT assessments interviews with stakeholders, as well as reference data models to understand potential gaps in existing risk related datasets. A report is then generated describing the status of available resources with respect to desired implementation, offering options for proposed investments needed to achieve project goals. The OpenDRI analysis tool finally provides clear practical guidelines and checklists for developing efficient Geonode projects through which risk related data is aggregated, managed and shared. Recommendations for effective sustainability of Geonode projects are also offered along with monitoring and evaluation methods that ensure long term success built on solid open data principles. More information can be found at: + .www.opendri.org/methodology: www.opendri.org/methodology 
///Further Reading:///
+ .World Bank Open Data Readiness Assessment: http://opendatatoolkit.worldbank.org/en/odra.html 
+ .Open Data Watch: Monitoring: http://opendatawatch.com/monitoring/ 