## 5. Communicated in ways that meet needs of diverse users
Risk information is complex and, in most cases, created by and for technical experts in the area of disaster risk management. Yet the hazards and vulnerabilities that risk data seeks to describe are of concern to everyone. There are an increasing number of tactics that are being developed to include the public in informed policy and planning decisions related to risk. Where public dollars are going to be invested in the creation of risk information, OpenDRI seeks to explore ways for this information to be accessible and relevant to as wide an audience as possible. Innovations in the areas of data visualization or serious games, and software tools developed for specific use-cases and audiences can provide new ways for the public to engage with risk science. For instance, the World Bank and AusAID have been developing InaSAFE, a tool that analyzes and package information in a manner relevant to emergency planners and responders. The Disaster Risk Financing team of the World Bank has been developing a suite of tools designed to communicate and analyze risk information in a way relevant to Ministries of Finance. 
///Example: OpenDRI Serious game///
In order to convey complex approaches and values such as (a) incorporating risk information into long-term planning decisions (b) the importance of open access to data for decision-making (c) the role of the community in providing up-to-date and accurate data, usual presentations and workshops may not be enough and quickly forgotten, a better way is to learn and create meaning through experience. Therefore the OpenDRI team collaborated with the Red Cross/Red Crescent Climate Centre to create an activity or “serious game” with an atmosphere of intense   interaction,   learning   and   dialogue,   combining   collaboration   and   competition,   and ensuring that participants have to deal with issues of data sharing, data quality, politics versus evidence versus emotion in decision making. Through this serious game,  the participants  are placed in  a  simulated  situation  where they take  a role  representing  real  life actors such staff of the Ministry of Education, NGO, Ministry of Planning and they have make decisions such prioritization of investments on schools, sharing of resources and others. They have a limited amount of time and the option to take advantage of the information and tools available to them such as the location of schools, flooding scenarios.
  Through the interactive activity, as the participants may be taken out of their comfort zone, they see the risk information and its application in a new light. The risk information is changed from something abstract and complex to something that is concrete and applicable and necessary for effective disaster risk mitigation.
 
///Further reading:/// 
+ .InaSAFE: http://inasafe.org
+ .Serious Game Concept: http://www.bu.edu/pardee/publications-library/2012-archive-2/games-climate-task-force/
